Minister Hermione Jean Granger (b. 19 September 1979) was an English Muggle-born witch born to Mr and Mrs Granger. At the age of eleven, she learned about her magical nature and was accepted into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Hermione began attending Hogwarts in 1991 and was Sorted into Gryffindor House. She possessed a brilliant academic mind and proved to be a gifted student in almost every subject that she studied, to the point where she was nearly made a Ravenclaw by the Sorting Hat. 

Hermione first met her future best friends Harry Potter and Ron Weasley aboard the Hogwarts Express, and initially they found her unfriendly and somewhat of an "insufferable know-it-all",  an impression reinforced by her constant correct answers and eagerness to please the professors. However, she stepped in to take the blame from the boys after they had saved her from a troll on Hallowe'en in 1991, surprising them in a grateful way, which led to them quickly becoming friends. She later played a crucial role in protecting the Philosopher's Stone from Voldemort.   

In her second year, Hermione had a key role in the discovery of the Chamber of Secrets, before falling victim to the Basilisk unleashed upon Hogwarts following the opening of the Chamber. However, she recovered from the petrification under the care of Madam Pomfrey with Professor Sprout's Mandrake Restorative Draught. The next year, Hermione was granted permission to use a Time-Turner from the Ministry of Magic to facilitate her volition to study far more subjects than were possible without time travel, though she and Harry later used it to rescue Sirius Black from the Dementor's Kiss and Buckbeak the hippogriff from execution.     

During her fourth year, Hermione became an advocate for the better treatment of house-elves, forming the association S.P.E.W., and helped in Harry's preparation for the Triwizard Tournament. In her fifth year, Hermione was the driving force behind the creation of Dumbledore's Army and fought alongside fellow D.A. members in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. In her sixth year, Hermione continued her role as Prefect and fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.    

Hermione played a significant role in many other battles of the Second Wizarding War, as well. In 1997, she fought in the Battle of the Seven Potters, alongside the Order of the Phoenix. Hermione and Ron decided not to return to Hogwarts for their final year of studies, instead choosing to accompany Harry on his quest to find and destroy Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes, a quest in which several of her actions were essential. She destroyed Hufflepuff's Cup, a Horcrux, with Ron using a Basilisk fang found in the Chamber of Secrets. Hermione then fought in the Battle of Hogwarts, helping in the defeat of the Death Eater who tortured her: Bellatrix Lestrange.  

Following the Second Wizarding War, Hermione went back to Hogwarts to complete her education. She later found employment with the Ministry of Magic, furthering the cause for the better treatment of house-elves. Afterward, she was promoted to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, where she dedicated herself to eradicating old laws that were biased in favour of pure-bloods. Hermione eventually married Ron Weasley and together they had two children, Rose and Hugo. She became the godmother of Harry and Ginny Potter's eldest son James. By the year 2019, Hermione had become the Minister for Magic.

